{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mnaryLim0\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28 Evaluation for Lab 1 \endash  Database and SQL Review\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4860\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9468 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar\b0\fs22 Name of programmer:\cell Taylor Wells\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4860\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9468 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Name of evaluator: \cell Taylor Wells\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4860\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9468 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Date:\cell 10/5/2023\cell\row 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b\i Programming style for all programs\i0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar\b0 Is proper formatting used?  Is formatting (and indentation) used consistently?  Are sql statements readable?\cell Yes\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Are sql keywords capitalized?  Is capitalization used consistently?\cell Yes\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Are comments used appropriately?\cell Yes\cell\row 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul Instructions\line\ulnone You should have already completed at least 50% of the lab.  After completing this evaluation you will submit this form.  Your sql code will be submitted by pasting the contents of the sql file containing the questions and your answers at the bottom of this file.  I will test your sql by running each query on and instance of MySQL and the MMABooks database running on my machine.  You may make corrections to your work and submit and updated evaluation in your final version of the lab. \par
\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar\b\i Results for all programs\i0\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar\b0 Does each statement run and produce the expected set of results?\cell Yes\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Does the result set include and appropriate set of columns?  Are the columns displayed in a sequence that makes sense?\cell Yes\cell\row\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx4927\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf1 \cellx9450 
\pard\intbl\nowidctlpar Is the result set ordered appropriately?\cell Yes\cell\row 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
General comments and notes:\par
\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1 One thing that you learned from completing the evaluation: I learned that working with SQL databases is not as intimidating as I thought it would be, and I actually think this may turn out to be my favorite part of schooling so far.\par
\par
SQL Code:\line /* 1 Select all of the customers who live in NY state. Show ID, Name, City, and State. Sort in a reasonable way. */\par
SELECT CustomerID, Name, City, State\par
FROM Customers\par
WHERE State = 'NY'\par
ORDER BY State, City, Name;\par
\par
/* 2 Select all of the states that start with A. Show both Code and Name. Sort by Name. */\par
SELECT State, CustomerID, Name\par
FROM Customers\par
WHERE State LIKE 'A%'\par
ORDER BY Name;\par
\par
/* 3 Select all of the products that have a price between 50 and 60 dollars. Show Code, Description, Price, and Quantity. Sort by Price. */\par
SELECT ProductCode, Description, UnitPrice, OnHandQuantity\par
FROM Products\par
WHERE UnitPrice BETWEEN 50 AND 60\par
ORDER BY UnitPrice;\par
\par
/* 4 Get the value of the inventory that we have on hand for each product. Show Code, Description, Price, Quantity, and Value. Sort by Value. */\par
SELECT ProductCode, Description, UnitPrice, OnHandQuantity * UnitPrice AS TotalValue\par
FROM Products\par
ORDER BY TotalValue;\par
\par
/* 5 Get me a list of the invoices. Show Invoice ID, Customer ID, Invoice Month as a number, Invoice Month as a word, and Invoice Year. Sort by Year and Month Number. */\par
SELECT InvoiceID, CustomerID, MONTH(InvoiceDate) AS MonthNumber, MONTHNAME(InvoiceDate) AS Month, YEAR(InvoiceDate)\par
FROM Invoices\par
ORDER BY YEAR(InvoiceDate), MONTH(InvoiceDate);\par
\par
/* 6 Get all of the information for the following products: A4CS, ADC4, CS10 */\par
SELECT *\par
FROM Products\par
WHERE ProductCode IN ('A4CS', 'ADC4', 'CS10');\par
\par
/* 7 Add the name of the state to the result set from #1 */\par
SELECT CustomerID, Name, City, State, StateName\par
FROM Customers\par
JOIN States ON Customers.State = States.StateCode\par
WHERE State = 'NY'\par
ORDER BY State, City, Name;\par
\par
/* 8 Add the customer's name to the result set from #5 */\par
SELECT I.InvoiceID, I.CustomerID, MONTH(InvoiceDate) AS MonthNumber, MONTHNAME(InvoiceDate) AS Month, YEAR(InvoiceDate), C.Name AS CustomerName\par
FROM Invoices AS I\par
JOIN Customers AS C ON I.CustomerID = C.CustomerID\par
ORDER BY YEAR(InvoiceDate), MONTH(InvoiceDate);\par
\par
/* 9 Get me a list of all of the products that have been ordered. Show all of the product information as well as the Invoice ID and the quantity ordered on each invoice. */\par
SELECT P.ProductCode, Description, P.UnitPrice, OnHandQuantity, InvoiceID, Quantity, IL.UnitPrice\par
FROM Products AS P\par
INNER JOIN InvoiceLineItems AS IL ON P.ProductCode = IL.ProductCode;\par
\par
/* 10 Get me a list of all of the invoices. Show Invoice ID, Customer ID, Invoice Date, as well as the Product Code, Description, Unit Price, and Quantity for each product ordered on the invoice. You'll have more than one record for each invoice. */\par
SELECT I.InvoiceID, I.CustomerID, I.InvoiceDate, ILI.ProductCode, P.Description, P.UnitPrice, ILI.Quantity\par
FROM Invoices AS I\par
JOIN InvoiceLineItems AS ILI ON I.InvoiceID = ILI.InvoiceID\par
JOIN Products AS P ON ILI.ProductCode = P.ProductCode;\par
\par
/* 11 Add the customer's name and state code to the results from #10. */\par
SELECT I.InvoiceID, I.CustomerID, I.InvoiceDate, ILI.ProductCode, P.Description, P.UnitPrice, ILI.Quantity, C.Name AS CustomerName, C.State\par
FROM Invoices AS I\par
JOIN InvoiceLineItems AS ILI ON I.InvoiceID = ILI.InvoiceID\par
JOIN Products AS P ON ILI.ProductCode = P.ProductCode\par
JOIN Customers AS C ON I.CustomerID = C.CustomerID;\par
\par
/* 12 Add the name of the state to the results from #11. */\par
SELECT I.InvoiceID, I.CustomerID, I.InvoiceDate, ILI.ProductCode, P.Description, P.UnitPrice, ILI.Quantity, C.Name AS CustomerName, C.State, S.StateName AS StateName\par
FROM Invoices AS I\par
JOIN InvoiceLineItems AS ILI ON I.InvoiceID = ILI.InvoiceID\par
JOIN Products AS P ON ILI.ProductCode = P.ProductCode\par
JOIN Customers AS C ON I.CustomerID = C.CustomerID\par
JOIN States AS S ON C.State = S.StateCode;\par
\par
/* 13 How many products do we have? */\par
SELECT COUNT(*)\par
FROM Products;\par
\par
/* 14 How many customers do we have? */\par
SELECT COUNT(*)\par
FROM Customers;\par
\par
/* 15 What's the total value of all of the products we have on hand? */\par
SELECT SUM(UnitPrice * OnHandQuantity) AS TotalValue\par
FROM Products;\par
\par
/* 16 What's the total value of ALL of the products we have sold? Use the ItemTotal from InvoiceLineItems to do the calculation. */\par
SELECT SUM(ItemTotal) AS TotalSold\par
FROM InvoiceLineItems;\par
\par
/* 17 What's the total value of EACH product we have sold? Use the ItemTotal from InvoiceLineItems to do the calculation. Show the Product Code as well as the total for that product. */\par
SELECT ProductCode, SUM(ItemTotal) AS TotalSold\par
FROM InvoiceLineItems\par
GROUP BY ProductCode\par
ORDER BY ProductCode;\par
\par
/* 18 Add the product description to #17. */\par
SELECT I.ProductCode, P.Description, SUM(ItemTotal) AS TotalSold\par
FROM InvoiceLineItems AS I\par
JOIN Products AS P ON I.ProductCode = P.ProductCode\par
GROUP BY I.ProductCode, P.Description\par
ORDER BY I.ProductCode;\par
\par
/* 19 How many orders (invoices) has each customer placed? Show CustomerID, Name, and count. */\par
SELECT C.CustomerID, C.Name AS CustomerName, COUNT(I.InvoiceID) AS NumberOfOrders\par
FROM Customers AS C\par
JOIN Invoices AS I ON C.CustomerID = I.CustomerID\par
GROUP BY C.CustomerID, C.Name\par
ORDER BY C.CustomerID;\par
\par
/* 20 List all customers, even if they don't have any orders. Show CustomerID, Name, and count of orders (invoices). */\par
SELECT C.CustomerID, C.Name AS CustomerName, COUNT(I.InvoiceID) AS NumberOfOrders\par
FROM Customers AS C\par
LEFT JOIN Invoices AS I ON C.CustomerID = I.CustomerID\par
GROUP BY C.CustomerID, C.Name\par
ORDER BY C.CustomerID;\par
\par
\par
}
 